---
layout: cluedin
title: Release 2025.01
parent: Release overview
nav_order: 2
permalink: /release-notes/2025-01
---
## On this page
{: .no_toc .text-delta }
- TOC
{:toc}

This article outlines new features and improvements in CluedIn 2025.01.

<div class="videoFrame">
<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/1069532711?h=29e7adc1a0&amp;title=0&amp;byline=0&amp;portrait=0&amp;badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture; clipboard-write" title="What&#039;s new in CluedIn 2025.01"></iframe>
</div>

The following sections contain brief description of new features and links to related articles.

## New Ingestion dashboard

The new Ingestion dashboard is designed to simplify your work with data sources and make data management more efficient and user-friendly. You’ll find a quick and simple way to start uploading your data into CluedIn from files, ingestion endpoints, databases, manual data entry projects, and crawlers. Additionally, you'll be able to quickly identify which data sets or manual data entry projects require attention, enabling you to prioritize and address issues efficiently. For more information, see [Ingestion](/integration).

## Sources page update

The Sources page (previously, Data Sources) now displays the number of sources per type and allows filtering the sources by type. Now, you can quickly find the needed source without expanding the group.

## Monitoring page update

The Monitoring page for data sets created from ingestion endpoints now displays the ingestion progress over time in the form of hourly and daily ingestion reports. Additionally, we’ve improved the endpoint index to help you track each payload by receipt ID. This way, you can review all records sent to CluedIn in a specific request. You can also view the golden records produced from each payload and delete those golden records if you no longer need them. We've also added a list of potential errors that can occur with the data set, along with remediation steps and the status for each error. For more information, see [Monitoring for ingestion endpoints](/integration/additional-operations-on-records/monitoring#monitoring-for-ingestion-endpoints).

## Source record approval

Source record approval is a mechanism that ensures only verified records are sent for processing. This is particularly useful for data sets created via an ingestion endpoint. After completing the initial full data load, you may want to ingest only delta records on a daily basis. The approval mechanism helps ensure that only verified delta records are processed. Data source owners can review these delta records and decide whether they should be processed. Source record approval can also be beneficial for manual data entry projects, as it grants project owners full control over the records created. Project owners can review new records added by non-owner users and decide whether they should be processed and turned into golden records. For more information, see [Approval](/integration/additional-operations-on-records/approval).

## Data set validations

Data set validations allow you to check source records for errors, inconsistencies, and missing values, and to correct invalid values. You can use auto-validation, where CluedIn analyzes the fields and suggest appropriate validation methods, or configure your own validation methods. By using data set validations, you can enhance the quality of source records and prevent incorrect records from becoming golden records. For more information, see [Validations](/integration/additional-operations-on-records/validations).

## Power Fx formulas

You can now use Power Fx formulas in rules to set up filters, conditions, and actions. With the help of Excel-like formulas, you can perform querying, equality testing, decision making, type conversion, and string manipulation based on the supported properties of a data part or a golden record. For more information, see [Power Fx formulas in rules](/management/rules/power-fx-formulas).

## New access control actions

Previously, you could only use the Allow Access action in the policy rule to give access to all or specific vocabulary keys in golden records. Now, you have more granular control over the types of access to golden records and their properties:

- View – to allow view-only access to all or specific vocabulary keys in golden records.
- Mask – to restrict access to sensitive data, allowing certain users or roles to know that the value exists but remains hidden.
- Add/edit – to grant full control over specific properties in golden records, allowing certain users or roles to add new properties to the golden record or edit existing properties.

For more information, see [Access control](/management/access-control).

## Search experience update

You can quickly find your recent searches, private saved searches, and shared saved searches by clicking anywhere in the search box. We’ve also improved the selection of business domains for search—now, you can view the number of golden records per business domain. Additionally, to simplify the process of adding columns to the search results page, we've updated the vocabulary key selector. Now, the vocabulary keys are grouped by vocabularies, allowing you to conveniently add all or specific vocabulary keys. For more information, see [Search](/key-terms-and-features/search).

## Audit log actions update
      
We’ve expanded the list of audit log actions to help you track changes to [clean projects](/preparation/clean/clean-reference#clean-project-audit-log-actions), [deduplication projects](/management/deduplication/deduplication-reference#deduplication-project-audit-log-actions), [users](/administration/user-management#user-management-reference), and [vocabularies](/management/data-catalog/vocabulary#ocabulary-overview). Additionally, the audit log now displays the activation and deactivation of enrichers, crawlers, and export targets, as well as the addition or removal of permissions for these items. This enhancement provides greater visibility and control, ensuring you can effectively audit and manage all activities.

## Stream logs

We have added stream logs to help you verify the successful export of your golden records and identify issues if something goes wrong. On the golden record page, you can now find a list of streams that exported the golden record, along with the date it was sent to the export target. Additionally, each stream now includes a stream log, where you’ll find all golden records exported by that stream. Stream logs can help you effectively monitor and troubleshoot your streams to ensure everything runs smoothly. For more information, see [Stream logs](/consume/streams/stream-logs).

## Terminology changes

To simplify CluedIn interface and make it more intuitive and better aligned with common industry concepts, we have changed some terms used in the platform. There are three major changes:

- **Entity type** is now referred to as **Business domain**.

- **Entity origin code** is now referred to as **Primary identifier**.

- **Entity codes** are now referred to as **Identifiers**.

The functionality behind the terms remains the same; only the terms have been changed. Learn more in [Terminology changes](/release-notes/terminology-changes).
